{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f4\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue128;\red251\green0\blue255;\red127\green0\blue128;
\red251\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red253\green139\blue9;\red0\green0\blue255;\red65\green113\blue255;
\red25\green60\blue255;\red36\green255\blue255;\red252\green87\blue8;\red46\green0\blue141;\red20\green0\blue57;
\red118\green118\blue118;\red62\green62\blue62;\red217\green148\blue77;\red253\green139\blue9;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red253\green139\blue9;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c50196\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c98431\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c49804\c0\c50196;
\cssrgb\c100000\c7248\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\csgenericrgb\c99216\c54510\c3529;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c25490\c44314\c100000;
\csgenericrgb\c9804\c23529\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c14118\c100000\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c98824\c34118\c3137;\csgenericrgb\c18039\c0\c55294;\csgenericrgb\c7843\c0\c22353;
\csgenericrgb\c46275\c46275\c46275;\csgenericrgb\c24314\c24314\c24314;\csgenericrgb\c85098\c58039\c30196;\cssrgb\c100000\c61456\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;
\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c61456\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid302\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid402\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid502\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25140\viewh16140\viewkind1\viewscale160
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf2 Literature on expectation shocks 
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Importance of expectation shocks, common references (Beaudry and Portier 2006, 2014, Jaimovich and Rebelo, 2009, Schmitt-Grohe and Uribe, 2012). Shift in market sentiments can appear without any modification in fundamentals (Lorenzoni, 2009, Forni, Gambetti, Lippi, and Sala, 2013). These shocks can originate from information frictions and can capture wave of optimism and pessimism unrelated to movements in fundamentals ( Angeletos La\'92o, 2013, Angeletos, Collard, and Dellas, 2014)\
\
- \cf2 Beaudry Portier 2014: survey pape\cf3 r\
\
- Beaudry Portier 2004 (see notes on April 2)\cf0 \
\
- \cf4 Beaudry Galizia Portier 2018 Restud: \cf0 Link Hayek\'92s view to Keynes\'92 one. Hayek maintains that recessions reflect period of needed liquidations resulting from past over-investment. Keynes views recession as periods of deficient demand that should be counteracted with policy intervention. This paper reconciles both view by asserting modelling the trade-off and concluding that while policy intervention postpones the adjustment, some of it is still needed during recessions. \
- \cf3 Huo Takayama: \cf0 a DSGE model with sentiments \
- \cf4 Beaudry Galizia Portier AER: \cf0 note that in this model, unlike hopefully ours, the probability of default is countercyclical \
\
- \cf4 Benhabib Wang 2013 JME: \cf0 model with financial constraint that generates indeterminacy of equilibria. In this context, shocks of all kinds produce boom-bust dynamics. Labor demand is effectively upward sloping and steeper than labor supply, this is due to the presence of an incentive compatibility constraint which gives pro cyclical lending, if one HH lends then also others are incentivized to do so, hence strategic complementarity in actions. \
\
- \cf5 Azariadis Kaas Wen 2015 Restud: \cf6 falls into the category of self-fulfilling equilibria due to financial constraints as Benhabib Wang, Liu Wang. Make the distinction between secured and unsecured debt. Firms gain access to unsecured debt as expectations on future economic conditions improve which reduce incentives to default through the temporary loss of access to future credit. \
\cf0 \
- \cf4 Benhabib Wen 2003 JME: \cf0 RBC model with externality - generates indeterminacy and boom and bust responses \
\
- \cf4 Benhabib Wang 2013 JME: \cf0 self-fulfilling equilibria in a financial accelerator model\
\
- \cf4  Benhabib Dong Wang: \cf0 otherwise standard RBC model with adverse selection. It generates two steady states (as shown in Wilson 1980) and indeterminacy due to (de facto) increasing returns generated by the pro cyclical variations in the fraction of honest borrowers resulting in a countercyclical markup (as in Benhabib and Farmer 1994) \
\
- \cf2 Leduc Sill 2013 Restat:\cf0  study changes in the expectations and their interactions with monetary policy. Use data from SPF and from Livingston Survey. Monetary policy tightens in expectations of good times. Check that results are robust if they use the Michigan Survey.\
\
- \cf2 Levchenko Pandalai-Nayar 2018 JEEA\cf0 : identify sentiment shocks as those that are orthogonal to surprise and TFP news shocks and that maximize the short run forecast error variance of either GDP forecast or Consumer confidence index. Note that we depart from them at least in 2 aspects: 1) the identification procedure is substantially different. 2) we orthogonalize relatively to the TFP path which is a weaker condition than news and surprise shock. In principle the belief shock can be correlated with news and surprise in a way that it has no effect on TFP.\
They obtain inflationary noise shocks \
\
- \cf2 Feve Guay 2018 EJ:\cf0  empirical paper, identification similar to LPN above but results are different (sentiment shocks not important). They use confidence measure, not forecasts. \
\
\
- \cf2 Kamdar JMP: \cf0 documents that using the Michigan Consumer Expectations survey and doing a Principal Component Analysis version for the categorical variables, unemployment expectations comoves with inflation, (unlike in the SPF). She claims that the shock resembles sentiments, not sure about the validity of the claim. She propose a model of rational inattention that rationalizes the findings.\
\
More theoretical literature:\
-\cf2  Angeletos Collard Dellas Econometrica (forthcoming): \cf0 Sentiment shocks as higher order beliefs shocks. \
\
- \cf4 Farmer 2014 Macroeconomic dynamics: \cf0 explain the basics of a model with multiple equilibria and a model with multiple steady states. In both models adaptive expectations/belief shocks can be used to select the equilibrium, however in the model with ss indeterminacy the ss is pinned down by the initial condition. Economically, the model with steady state indeterminacy and unique equilibrium (thanks to belief shocks) can explain hysteresis. \cf4 \
\cf0 \
- \cf4 Angeletos La\'92O: Sentiments\
\cf0 Sentiment shocks as aggregate first order belief shocks that arise in a unique equilibrium framework with limited communication and trading frictions across islands. Sentiment shocks are extrinsic in the sense that do not alter expectations about economic fundamentals (unlike Chahrour Gaballo where all shocks are fundamental but sentiment arises due to the presence of both aggregate and idiosyncratic shocks).\
\
- \cf2 Milani 2011 EJ, 2017 JEDC\cf0 : estimate near-rational learning model (rather than rational expectations) using SPF data. Sentiments are defined as waves of optimism/pessimism. Agents forms expectations using a correctly specified model but they do not know the parameters, as econometricians. However they are hit by exogenous sentiment shocks that make them deviating from their point forecast. These deviations are estimated by looking at the difference between SPF forecasts and realized macroeconomic series. No boom and busts \
\
Silveira Woodford\
-\
\
- \cf2 Christiano Harrison 1999 JME: \cf0 good to understand chaos and optimal policy under externality that generates self-fulfilling equilibria. Optimal policy is an automatic stabilizer, that is a procyclical tax rate. Intuitively in a model with self-fulfilling prophecies these will be counteracted by the expectations of a change in taxation which undo the effects of the externality.   \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf3 ON Credit market: facts on credit quality and borrow quality, and theoretical models on adverse selection\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf7 - Kyotaki Moore: \cf0  model generates boom and bust after a tech shock and income shock\cf3 \
\
\cf7 - Krishnamurthy and Muir 2017:  \cf0 show that crisis are preceded by a period of growth in fragility (measured as credit/GDP growth) and leverage, and low spread and risk premium. Although, unconditionally spread and credit growth/GDP are positively correlated \
\
\cf7 - Lopez-Salido Stein Zakrajsek 2017 QJE: \cf0 Construct credit market sentiment as fitted values of credit spread from variables dated two years in the past and show that credit market sentiment are associated with a future decline in economic activity. Relevant is the focus on non-financial institutions as opposed to the banking sector. \
\
\cf7 - Coimbra Rey 2019: \cf0 A model with heterogenous financial intermediaries in terms of their ability to lever up. Important limited liability assumption where hh deposit are backed up by the government. A decline in the interest rate features an increase in leverage (intensive margin) due to lower deposit rate and an increase in financial fragility (if interest rate is low to begin with) reflected by the average increase in the default probability due to a decline in the mpk after higher investment which results in too low margins for low leveraged (low risk taker) financiers. \
\cf7 \
- Khorrami JMP: \cf0  he has a foundation on the negative comovement between financial fragility and risk premium which relies on the sectoral nature of the shock and the benefit of diversification. In his model some shocks generate boom and busts, others do not. \
\
- Matsuyama 2007 AER\
- Greenwood et al A model of Credit Sentiment\
- \cf7 Schularick and Taylor 2012 AER\cf0 : past credit growth is a good predictor of a banking crises  \
- Jorda Schularick Taylor\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Scholars such as Minsky (1977) and Kindleberger (1978) have argued that the financial system itself is prone to generate economic instability through endogenous credit booms\cf7 \
\pard\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf7 In summary there is substantial evidence that credit-market sentiment predicts a recession. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf8 Problems 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
	- the underlying series, say GDP, gets revised -> see Clements Galvao, Leduc Sill use unemployment data as they do not get revised\
	- sentiments shock can be correlated with uncertainty shocks \'97 an increase of uncertainty leads to a downward revision of forecasts of macro variables. Shall we also control for the Jurado Ludvigson Ng measure? Is it too restrictive? Levchenko Pandalai-Nayar check the covariance with Bloom\'92s uncertainty measure.\
\
\
Data treatment\
\
	- Since we are not interested in long run changes due to demographics, labor market composition, etc. we should remove the long run trends as in Stock and Watson (2016, replication files available) using a biweight filter with bandwidth of 100 quarters. The detrending is done on a integrated of order zero series (requires truncation at the ends of the sample, see p 61). (Baxter-King filter gives similar results).\
\
\
Marco Brianti\
\
Jorda (2005) AER introduces LP. It is an important reference but not a super important paper at this point. It does not discuss clearly how to do confidence intervals. He just states to use Newey-West (HAC) errors.\
Jorda (2007) RESTAT proposes a method to construct confidence regions given a propagation trajectory. In other words, he wants to construct confidence bands when errors are serially correlated. Method since to be complicated but feasible. I suggest to wait for this method and check Newey-West and Block boostrap.\
\
Ramey and Zubairy (2018) JPE use Newey-West (HAC) errors. They published in JPE with this method so it sounds quite reliable. We need to consider that they use historical data.\
\
Kilian and Kim (2011) RESTAT propose a block bootstrap approach since the error term in LP regressions is serially correlated. This is what I am actually doing and hopefully I will conclude soon.\
\
Today, 8/21/2018\
\
Stock and Watson (2018) \'96 The Economic Journal\
\
It is a technical survey on IV on LP.\
\
\
Suppose the forecast revision only happens when GDP was expected to decrease\
\
Crucially, news shocks and noise shocks may be not identifiable without rotating the residuals in the future. We overcome this issue by imposing restrictions directly on future TFP - it echoes Charhour and Jurado procedure without having to estimate a VAR. \
\
Note that we significantly diverge from the idea that TFP can be endogenous so that sentiment shocks can be self-fulfilling (on TFP) as in Beaudry Nam and Wang 2012, in that our sentiment shock is orthogonal to future TFP. (Beaudry et al is not a good citation in the   sense of Arias Ramirez Waggoner 2018)\
\
\

\f0\b \cf8 Vito & Marco - November 4
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\
Thoughts:\
\
- Estimated News shocks are the expected value of future fundamentals given the observed signal at time t. Thus they comprise the noise shocks. \
		- Pierre argues that the concept of realized vs expected movements should not be associated to noise shocks. This is because all shocks - unanticipated and anticipated - are of this kind. I believe that is a valuable comment and that we need to think along the lines of what model we have in mind, how persistent processes are, and what the literature has focused on. \
\
- Sentiment shocks pertain to the broader concept of sunspot shocks, thus not necessarily related to expectations on future technology. Hence as we are interested in the estimation of this broader category of noise shocks, following Barsky and Sims to extract noise would be fallacious. \
\
\

\f0\b \cf8 Vito & Marco - November 15: Meeting with Gennaioli \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf8 - \cf0 Distinguish between shocks that predict forecast error (noise-type shocks) vs sunspot-type shocks (residual) 
\f2\i via
\f1\i0  a regression of the forecast error on the z-tilde. Compute new IRFs\
\
- A model inspired by \cf2 Greenwood and Hanson  \cf0 paper on ships, or more generally on the literature carried by Gennaioli \'97 Inventory/overheads inputs seems to work. Related, there is a paper by a Stanford grad student and also a paper on Credit cycles by Stefano Rossi (working paper is not available right now) who highlight how overreaction can be generating boom and bust type of behavior.\
\
- Gennaioli points out that there are no paper looking at macro consequences of overreaction as we possibly might do.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf8 Vito & Marco - November 18: Work at Caf\'e9 Nero\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b0 \cf0 1.	1.	1.	We replicate the exercise of Coibion-Gorodnichenko (or simply the one of Gennaioli). Results are consistent with the literature. SPFs tend to underreact when they revise their forecasts. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 1.	1.	2.	We also regress Ztilde on the forecast error of real GDP growth rate. Without controlling for past principal components SPFs (Ztilde) tend to underreact consistently with existing literature. If we control for past principal components (we are using just 2 PCs) then Ztilde is not significantly related to its forecast error.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 1.	1.	3.	In order to have a Boom-Bust story, SPFs correctly predict the overreaction of managers. So, we need to find some variables - which is strictly related to aggregate managers forecasts - to show: \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 a.	a.	a.	Ztilde is correlated with aggregate managers revisions. \
b.	b.	b.	Aggregate managers revisions are related to overreaction.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\li1440\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl1\cf0 a.	a.	4.	Two literatures seem to be relevant to make a consistent point:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl1\cf0 b.	b.	a.	Theoretical literature on boom-bust\
c.	c.	b.	Empirical literature on managers\'92 expectations\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 TODO\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 1. Extend sample to the recent crisis.\
2. Plot relative price of investment good (see Beaudry and Portier 2014).\
3. Stock prices don\'92t seem to exhibit a boom-bust behavior, let\'92s have a look at the new results first - bearing in mind that is hard to build a story of boom and bust without the ensuing collapse of stock prices.\
4. Do PCA using the various measure of expectations from SPF\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf4 January 2\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
0. Read on literature on boom and bust (e.g. Asriyan et al 2018)\
1. 
\f0\b Monetary policy in a bubbly world
\f1\b0  (Asriyan Fornaro et al 2018)\
\
\
\
\
\
Chahrour Gaballo: learning from prices generates a positively sloped aggregate demand which is necessary for comovement of price and quantities. Agents confound  higher prices resulting from negative TFP shocks with improvement in the local conditions. Noteworthy, sentiment-like shocks arise because of the presence of island-specific shocks together with aggregate productivity shocks. Sentiment shocks are dubbed as such from the econometrician point of view since island specific shocks are uncorrelated among islands. But why do they get aggregate comovements after island-specific shocks? Through prices. \
They do have strategic complementarities into actions, if agent i responds by increasing consumption then prices increase inducing agent j to also respond by consuming more. The question is whether we can generate a belief reversal in this context, that is we need some decreasing return. Also, we cannot use prices. \
\
Perhaps we could think of a framework where sentiment shocks originate from local interactions among agents. \
\
\
Check sentiment shocks in Yang \
\
\
\
Farmer macroeconomic dynamics 2012 the evolution of endogenous bc \
\
Ordonez good booms bad booms\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 List of conditions: \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone \
 - Sentiments should be uncorrelated with TFP and policy shocks \
 - Expected response of sentiment shocks is of a boom-bust with periodicity around 30 quarters\
 - Expected response of a tech shock does not generate any cyclicality, quite the same is true for other policy shocks \
 - - Sentiments explain more than one third of output \
\
Stress financial aspects using data\
\
Stress the actual relevance of the phenomenon: search the literature/newspapers that argue in favor of an imminent crisis - check the response of the financial variables, stock prices, leverage ratios etc\
\
January 14\
\
Within the context of sentiments arising from self-fulfilling fluctuations do tech shocks generate a unique equilibrium response? My guess is yes, think about taking a model with increasing returns and introduce consumption as a state variable to select the equilibrium. Then tech shocks behave as in the typical RBC. The problem is to obtain a cyclical path only after sentiments. On the other hand while the framework In BCS might allow for such different propagations mechanisms - think about having a inverted-C labor demand that is having monotonically  decreasing returns (consistent with the empirical evidence Ilut et al JPE) - obtaining fluctuations in sentiments is hard. \
\
How do we interpret sentiment shocks? Can they be demand shocks in the form of discount factor shocks?\
\
Could also check UIP deviations, i.e. change of risk premium conditional on the shock \
\
With Ryan: \
	- discuss test \
	- discuss list of conditions \
	- discuss on the interpretability of sentiments: demand shocks, self-fulfilling perturbations, idiosyncratic shocks, etc - the shock has almost no effect on VIX, casts doubts on the financial nature of the sentiment shock. \
\
Other issues: \
\
Response of consumption is mildly significative. Marco: In some specifications is strongly significative but not in all of them!\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 January 28, 2019\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
Canova (1996) \'96 Time series Xt exhibits cycles of mean period r < infinity if the (non-normalized) spectral density of Xt has a peak or a large mass at a specific frequency. This definition is consistent with Granger and Newbold (1986), Sargent (1986), Sims (1974) and Granger (1979).\
\
Notice that a peak implies a local maximum. Which implies that an AR(1) with negative coefficient would not display a cycle because it is strictly decreasing in the periodicity. To be more consistent we should find a more proper way to test for a local peak. Canova (1996) proposes three different tests. I guess that BGP adopt only one of them, maybe for us that one is not the most suitable. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf3 February 9\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf9 In the framework that we have in mind the fraction of distressed borrowers is procyclical conditioning on a demand shock. This is in contrast with the model of Benhabib and coauthors, in their model amplification and, at the limit, self-fulfilling equilibria, is obtained through the countercyclical risk premium which is a function of output which is equal to the number of honest borrowers.  In contrast we have a story in mind where production increases due to the high sluggishness behavior of production which further 
\f0\b increases
\f1\b0  the fraction of distressed borrowers. Thus there cannot be a one-to-one mapping between output and the fraction of honest borrowers. We need to act on the extensive margin, that is even though the fraction of honest borrowers decreases, the number of honest borrowers increases\cf10 . \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf11 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf12 February 10\cf3 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf13 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf14 - Look at finance literature on credit quality cyclicality: RELEVANT VARIABLES: credit spread, growth of credit over GDP, a measure of financial fragility as measured by Jorda Schularick and Taylor (2010)\
 \
- Think of the intuition to get a separation between output and the fraction of distressed borrowers \
\
- Note that models of boom and bust with sunspots strikingly differ from models of boom and busts where busts are \'93optimal\'94, in the sense that the consideration for optimal policy might be very different. In self-fulfilling expectations model policy may produce very large gains. \
\
- Look at Kiyotaki and Moore (1997)\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf15 \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf16 February 11\
\
Why not writing a model with sunspot shocks? That is, this class of models focus on countercyclical markup  as the main reduced form mechanism of amplification. Can we use it to make our point? Certainly they can give amplification, but can it be the reduced form we envisage?\
\
To differentiate from Benhabib and Wen 2004 results on the VAR where they estimate demand and supply shocks as in Blanchard and Quah, you need to show that not all demand shocks generate cyclical dynamics. Hence we need also to plot the IRF for government spending shocks. However they do not focus on the boom and bust aspect of the shock \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf7 Literature review\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 This literature review has two aims. First it classifies papers into boxes in order to help identify and remember the main contribution of each single one. Second, it helps us to identify our targets: the backbone of our model and our contribution(s). \
\
The relevant questions we need to answer are: \
\
	1. Does this paper\'92s model can be recasted into our two-equation reduced form? And if so, does tech shock 	   	    and demand shock behave consistently with our findings?\
\
	2. Do agents predict the bust?\
\
              3. Does the model give predictions that we can test on the data, e.g. credit growth, credit spread,  debt to 		    capital ratio, bid-ask spread, cross sectional differences**\'85?\
\
	4. Why is the boom inefficient?  Irrational optimism of the borrowers, moral hazard caused by expectations  	    of a bailout (unlikely because of the frequency of the event considered),  inefficient delays in the 		    treatment of information, negative externality for which higher borrowing of some agents may increase 		    systematic risk? Is it through the extensive margin e.g. changes in the composition of borrowers or the 		    intensive margin e.g. changes in the collateral value, leverage \
\
	5. What does generate the bust? Credit supply or credit demand? \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
	- \cf7 On theoretical models of credit booms that end up in a recession\cf17 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Models of information cycles 
\f1\b0  generate boom and bust dynamics due to endogenous countercyclical information acquisition. In 
\f0\b Gorton Ordonez (2016 JEEA)\'86\'a7 
\f1\b0 low information acquisition on the collateral value leads to a credit boom in which firms with low collateral value obtain credit. As credit expands firms more lower quality project are financed so that average productivity declines. The reduction of average productivity increases lenders\'92 incentives to acquire information on the collateral. Credit supply decreases and output declines\'b0. EXTERNALITY: firms do not internalize that by taking information-insensitive loans they would trigger incentives to acquire information. In the interest of our findings, they show that booms that do not precede bust are those associated with a positive change in 
\f2\i trend productivity. 
\f1\i0 In fact their argument is that a positive but transitory increase in technology is the source of the ensuing recession. In contrast, if technology keeps improving at a faster rate during a boom then it prevents the reduction of the quality of the average project. We differ from them in at least two aspects. First, we focus on cycles with higher frequency and argue that these cycles are generated by shocks unrelated 
\f2\i also 
\f1\i0 to transitory changes of fundamentals. Second, their model generate asymmetric cycles where a boom suddenly dramatically ends in crises, our model, consistent with our findings, would display smoother dynamics.  
\f0\b  \
\
Models of moral hazard in the interbank market
\f1\b0  such as 
\f0\b Boissay Collard Smets (2016 JPE) 
\f1\b0 aim at matching the negative correlation between credit growth and cost of funds that precede financial crisis as found in the data (Krishnamurthy Muir 2017). In BCS the pecuniary EXTERNALITY is that households do not internalize that by increasing savings in anticipation of a future crisis, they decrease the cost of funds in the interbank market which heightens adverse selection. Banks which are more likely to divert funds enter, ultimately trigging a freeze in the interbank market. In their DSGE model crises can be triggered by exogenous negative shocks or
\f2\i  endogenous
\f1\i0  mechanism. Estimates of their model favor mild negative tech shocks, hence credit booms and recessions are intimately linked.  In 
\f0\b Coimbra Rey (2019) 
\f1\b0 moral hazard is generated by borrowers limited liability and government guarantees on households deposits. Also their model is able to generate periods of low risk premium and increasing macroeconomic risk, however it does not generate boom and bust dynamics.  Another example of these models is 
\f0\b Myerson (2012 JPE)
\f1\b0 . 	
\f0\b \
\
\
Real Boom and Bust cycles: 
\f1\b0 in
\f0\b  Beaudry Galizia Portier (2019 AER) 
\f1\b0 there is a positive externality between consumption and employment. A habit in consumption allows to rule out indeterminacy and have cyclical dynamics akin to 
\f0\b Benhabib and Wen (2004 JME). \
\
Boom and bust in a model of indeterminacy: Benhabib Dong Wang, Benhabib Wang. 
\f1\b0 More generally Benhabib and Farmer 1994. \

\f0\b \
Leverage 
\f1\b0 is procyclical in the data (for how to measure it look at 
\f0\b Nuno and Thomas 2017) 
\f1\b0 and highly volatile. Models that explain procyclical leverage rely on procyclical leverage constraints in the form of Value at Risk (VaR) constraints, see Adrian and Shin (2010, 2011, 2014), Coimbra and Rey, Nuno and Thomas. In particular Nuno and Thomas build a model where second moment shocks are responsible for the leverage cyclicality, as opposed to technology or shocks to the quality of capital. This is because while the latter shocks affect primarily asset prices which are negatively correlated with leverage, a positive volatility tightens the leverage constraint due to increasing banks\'92 incentives to take risk (option value effect is at work as banks are not exposed to the downside risk). 
\f0\b \
Look at https://voxeu.org/article/bank-leverage-cycles for a brief summary of Nuno and Thomas\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
** note that as argued in Lopez-Salido et al, the credit supply retrenchment generating a boom disproportionally affects the lower credit quality firms, this is because their proxy of sentiment forecast changes in the aggregate effective cost of credit and lower credit quality firms typically have a higher loading on the aggregate market conditions. 
\f0\b \
\'b0 
\f1\b0 Their measure of distance-to-insolvency (DI) that is the inverse of the volatility of a firm\'92s equity return can be of interest for our empirical analysis. They predict that DI decreases during a bad boom. 
\f0\b \

\f1\b0 \'a7 indicates overlapping generation\
\'86 indicates model of deterministic cycle
\f0\b \
\
		- \cf7 Empirical findings\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 For a quite concise and exhaustive review of the relevant empirical literature on credit cycles see 
\f0\b Bordalo Gennaioli and Shleifer JF\
\
(Measures of) Systemic risk 
\f1\b0 captures changes in the tail comovement of institutions\'92 assets and liabilities that can arise due to the spreading of financial distress across institutions (see
\f0\b  Adrien Brunnermeier 2016 AER, 
\f1\b0 AB henceforth, data online
\f0\b ).  
\f1\b0 In general there is a very large literature that tries to measure systemic risk, we are interested in those measures that highlight the procyclicality of systemic risk (note that this is related to the empirical regularity that financial institutions take excessive risk when volatility is low, a phenomenon that Brunnermeier and Sannikov (2014) termed the volatility paradox). 
\f0\b \
\
Adrian Boyarchenko Giannone AER forthcoming 
\f1\b0 find that the National Financial Conditions Index computed by the Chicago FED predicts changes in the downside risk. Also they find that GDP vulnerability changes at relatively high frequencies and that GDP volatility growth is nearly entirely driven by the left side of the conditional distribution. 
\f0\b \
\
Mian, Sufi, and Verner 2017 QJE
\f1\b0  show that the growth of household debt predicts economic slowdowns. Their timing is similar to ours. Among other things, they use the Greenwood and Hanson variable to identify the credit supply shock. See also 
\f0\b Mian and Sufi 2018 JEP
\f1\b0 . \cf3 It is important to emphasize whether our story is consistent with theirs or we rely on household credit in the form of deposit, instead, and why,\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Greenwood Hanson \'93Reflexivity in the credit market\'94 
\f1\b0 matches the fact that credit and real cycles display different periodicities through a model with reflexivity that is the idea of a feedback between investors beliefs and the economy activity 
\f0\b \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf3 Martin: endogenous credit cycles RFS. \cf0 Under adverse selection contracts can be the same to all borrowers (pooling regime) or different (separation regime). Moving from one regime to another gives rise to endogenous cycles. \cf3 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf7 		- Non rational expectations: theory and empirics   \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Greenwood Shleifer 2014 RFS: 
\f1\b0 survey evidence on expectations on stock market returns and evidence of extrapolation.  \
\

\f0\b Greenwood Hanson Jin 
\f1\b0 \
\

\f0\b Bordalo Gennaioli La Porta Shleifer JF forthcoming: 
\f1\b0 a model of diagnostic expectations with learning that matches the fact that portfolio returns of optimistic agents are lower than portfolio returns of pessimistic agents. \
\
\
\
\
		\cf3 - BUBBLES\
Martin Ventura 2012 AER\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
		\cf7 - 
\f0\b Overbuilding/Overaccumulation \
Rognlie Shleifer Simsek 2017 AEJ Macro: 
\f1\b0 \cf0 Collapse of home prices affects financial constraint because banks suffered losses so they give less lending to firms and because home owners have to cut their borrowings as the value of their collateral decreases. The model has the household and capital sector. A negative permanent shock of preferences towards houses and adjustment costs in the housing sector lead to a recession where housing sector recover much later than the other variables. The reallocation from housing to capital is slowed down by the constrained monetary policy (Keynesian effect). Similar in style and general idea (Hayek vs Keynes) to BGP Restud. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Is there always asymmetric information in these models? Note that in the context of imperfect information a sentiment shock may arise (see Angeletos and La\'92O). No in the textbook model of Kyotaki and Moore there is no asymmetric info\
\
I 
\f1\b0 believe that the supporting evidence for our story can be the following: look at the volatility of credit market sentiment measures and thus argue that if these typically predict a bust as in Lopez-Salido et al, then it is at odds with the stories of low frequency financial cycles as in Gorton and Ordonez and Boissay Collard and Smets. Conversely they favor our model which focuses on relatively higher frequencies. \
\
Check correlation with the excess bond premium (EBP) of Gilchrist and Zakrajsek \
Check response of exchange rate. Related, check the effect of the sentiment shock on the UIP deviations. Levchenko Pandalai-Nayar (2018) already shows that sentiment shock is relatively more important than technology shock in accounting for fluctuations in Canadian variables. \
\
Utilizza l\'92espressione: sow the seeds, like booms sow the seeds of recessions\
We want to capture the stylized fact that risk builds up in the background during boom phases characterized by low volatility and materializes only in crises times \
Data: \
\
Check domestic credit to private sector (as in Gorton Ordonez) \
Check leverage data from Nuno and Thomas (data are available as it is published in the AEJ, should be from 1981 to 2014 at a monthly level)\
\
TODO econometrically: \
- take SPF measure of realized series of GDP\
- Around each revision of GDP growth we have analysts dispersion. I believe in the first stage we should weight the observation by the dispersion \
- Check analysts dispersion (and skewness) and see whether it is correlated with the sentiment shocks and technology shock \
- Find a measure of SRISK (Engle has it but it is annual), find a measure that captures high risk debt \
- look for excessive credit spread movements \
- look at household debt measures from Mian, Sufi, and Verner\
- eye balling the graph it does not seem that the 2009 crisis was foreseen \
- the lower spread following the boom is indicative of a credit supply shock.\
- check non linearities \
- check Rsquared of credit market sentiment with our sentiment shock\
\
Would it make sense to check the effect on GDP vulnerability (as in Adrian et al) conditioning on the two shocks?\
A caveat of our analysis is that financial cycle exhibit a much longer duration  (Filardo Lombardi Raczko 2018). However a long standing literature stresses the importance of the financial sector in amplifying business cycle fluctuations. \
\
TermYield is typically procyclical \
Our results for Tech shock are consistent with Gali Lopez-Salido Valles 2003 JME\
\
				Relation with credit market sentiment\
The literature (Greenwood Hanson Jin among others) focuses on measures of credit market sentiment that predicts future low returns on high yield bonds. Typically they proxy market sentiment taking one measure at a time (such as HYS, EBP, Growth of corporate credit) or altogether as in Lopez-Salido et al. We could check (via Rsquared) how much these measures explain of our Sentiment variable. This could be informative for the model. \
\
Our CONTRIBUTIONS\
\
- Inform the literature on sentiment: need a model that generates boom and bust - very few match the result (Benhabib series, Beaudry et al) and many don\'92t (Angeletos series, Milani series, Levchenko etc)\
- Bridge sentiment shock literature with credit market sentiment: is the shock originating from expectations of better economic conditions or change in investors\'92 beliefs on financial conditions - not necessarily the same thing. Overall we bring the financial cycle literature closer to the real bc literature\
- Variance explained by this shock is large - true in the sentiment literature, not quite in the financial one\
- Quarterly analysis on US variables and boom and bust responses - nobody has done that \
- Fundamental vs non fundamental shocks in generating the boom and bust - Gorton and Ordonez somewhat similar but not quite, Greenwood et al not sure -  inform also NRE literature (Bordalo et al don\'92t match it) \
- Evidence in favor of RE or NRE? Echoing Coibion and Gorodnichenko, important for BC literature \'97 closer to Shiller\'92s view that confidence is critical for the economy and rational expectations are unsatisfying  \
- Bubbles?\
\
\
\
\
Note that we want a model that has no excess volatility of spread (need to check whether we are taking the right measure) after technology shocks. Importantly, we need a definition of excessive credit spread from the model that we can check in the data. \
\
Need to distinguish between those who find a boom and bust in output gap (Shularick Taylor, Mian Sufi Verner (?) etc) versus those that find results consistent with AR(1) dynamics (e.g. LSZ)\
\
\
Adjustment cost to debt could turn out to be useful\
Random maturity of long term debt is useful because it avoids keep tracking of each firm but the relevant variable is only the remaining long term debt outstanding in each period \
\
In 2007 median share of debt maturing in more than 3 years was 57% among publicly traded firms \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf7 From Minsky 1977 on the financial instability\cf0  \cf7 hypothesis
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
The \'93speculative finance\'94 - in our context these are banks in response to a positive sentiment shock - are vulnerable on three fronts:  (comments in brackets are mine)\
1. They must meet the market as they refinance debt. A rise in interest rates (for example engineered by the FED or a decrease in savings by HHs) can cause their cash payment commitments relative to receipts to rise. \
2. As their assets are of longer term than their liabilities, a rise in both long and short term interest rates will lead to a greater fall in the market va lue of their assets than of their liabilities. \
3. Given 1, there could be wide revaluations of desire and acceptable financial structures (VaR tightens). \
[\'85] The decline in investment that follows from a reluctance to finance leads to a decline in profits and in the ability to sustain debt. Quite suddenly panic can develop as pressure to lower debt ratios increases. \
[\'85] We have to establish and enforce a good financial society in which the tendency by business and bankers to engage in speculative finance is constrained.\
\
\
\
ADD to LITERATURE Folder \
Lopez-Salido et al\
Krishanmurty Muir\
Khorrami \
Greenwood Hanson Jin \
Angeletos Collard Dellas \
Martin Ventura 2011\
Christiano Harrison 1998  \
Matsuyama Sushko Gardini 2016 JET\
Figueroa Leukhina 2018 JBF \
Myerson \
Lorenzoni 2007 Restud \
Adrian Shin 2013 \
Bordalo Gennioli Ma Shleifer 2018\
Barberis Greenwood Jin Shleifer 2017 \
Mian Sufi Verner 2017 \
Bordalo Gennaioli Shleifer JF \
\
MODEL thoughts: \
\
1. Very hard to get excess spread movement in the form of spread to GDP (I don\'92t think Gennaioli does it in the sense that they get excess movement of spread to fundamental but not to GDP). Apropos we need a model where the increased default associated to the decline in spread is the prevailing force. \
\
2.  Ultimately we are looking for a model of endogenous risk taking of  financial intermediaries, this can result from the time varying default of their assets or instead time varying default of intermediaries for a given portfolio \
\
3. Do firms max(pi) or max(max(0,pi))?\
\
4. Our goal is IRF matching so the model can be rather more complicated than a model that needs to be estimated i.e. where one has to feed al shocks simultaneously and at different times. \
\
We want a model where the interest rate reflects expected default and expected output, so long as interest rate is not too far from the steady state output effect prevails, when interest rate is far from SS default effect prevails leading to a reversal. \
\
Estimate from data a model consistent TFP and use that to orthogonalize for sentiment \
\
Working capital loans \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf7 March 20\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 What\'92s special about residuals of expectation relative to residuals to  current GDP growth or other macro variables? Nothing really, the answer should be model dependent. \
- Modified detrending in Local projection\
\
- If I regress (erroneously) RESID08 on SHOCK NARRATIVE which contains RESID08 the LP gives boom and bust and explains a lot of output at future horizon. MAKES NO SENSE, it needs to be sorted out. \
- If I use as Y a series of 1s then it can explain more than the 20% of output at longer horizons. MAKES NO SENSE. The Variance Decomposition has to be revised\
- I added the past of forecast revisions in the first stage. Results are not robust across the number of principal components and lags. \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf7 March 22\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The story could be that in times where technology is not expanding there are incentives to create financial instability which ultimately lead to recessions. The very same incentives can be tamed by Pigouvian taxation equal to the social cost of the negative externality (see also Malherbe on social costs) or other forms of policy. \
\
Reading Jeanne and Korinek, see also Bianchi Mendoza 2010, Drehmann et al 2018 and Davila and Korinek 2018 see also the three period model of Jeanne and Korinek Restud\
\
March 25\
Distinguish between aggregate demand externality and pecuniary externality (Korinek and Simsek 2016)\
In a model with standard pricing equation, if you want to get the right stock prices response together with humpshaped consumption then you need consumption habit. For more on stock prices and habit see Cochrane and Campbell JPE. \
Note that empirical Stock prices response does not have hump shape.\
\
https://hbr.org/2012/03/the-incentive-bubble\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf7 March 28\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I believe the bubble story is hard to square with a model where there are both positive and negative sentiment shocks. The reason is because while a positive sentiment shock can be fed by a bubble which ultimately leads to a bust, therefore acting as an amplification mechanism, the negative sentiment shock would unlikely lead to a negative bubble. Although the bubble could emerge after the reversal, when the growth rate is again positive, hence leading to overshooting. Yet it is not clear why variations in technology should discourage from the emergence of a bubble. \
\
Occasionally binding constraint: how to insert technology? Need to insert it in the constraint. Still does not necessarily work because if both shocks are transitory then it does not play a difference whether the constraint is relaxed or not. If shocks are medium run then the economy might accumulate too much in the short run due to a relaxation of the constraint which brings the economy to a temporarily high borrowing equiibrium. Of course it\'92s hard to understand how agents act in anticipation of the absorption of the shock. All in all I think we need to write models that match our reduced form, at least we know we could get the result. \
\
I believe the narrative of quality of the assets could be compelling. Nonetheless we would need to find supporting evidence. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf7 March 29\cf0 \
Study Basu\'92s material \
King: misallocation as in Khan and Thomas is a property of non technology shocks. In these models the distribution of firms is a state variable and ideally could be responsible for the boom and bust. The question is whether this is consistent with data that is in such modelling environment one would capture our dynamics even though once is controlling for measured tfp. \
Tech shocks produce higher markup and lower prices \
\
Ryan comment: invertibility may always be an issue unless we define the sentiment shock as arising from intratemporal expectations \
See Khorrami introduction \
\
\cf7 March 30\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 From 
\f0\b Boldrin and Woodford 1989
\f1\b0 : technical survey paper on chaos and endogenous cycles \'97 need to cite it as a survey of old literature on endogenous cycle. Not too difficult to read if you are interested in understanding under what conditions cycles can emerge. The focus is on a single state variable satisfying specific properties.  They mention Bewley 1986 as the first demonstration that borrowing constraints could make endogenous business cycle possible in a standard context with infinitely lived hh and one-sector production technology. Deneckere and Judd 1986 obtain endogenous cycle in a model of endogenous product creation. \
\
We really want to write a paper as Boldrin and Woodford 1990 . Very elegant in the exposition, clear distinction and intersections between olg and infinitely-lived agents models. They clearly state the conditions under which endogenous cycles are possible.  My guess is that we also need to work with those conditions and add an additional state to get conditional cycles. I need to understand how they can get endogenous cycle using only one state variable. \
I am trying to understand the non linear framework in Boldrin and Woodford which consists in only one state variable vis a vis the linearized model in BGP: how BGP discuss nonlinearities? Can a system with only one state variable admit dynamics that are shock dependent? There indeterminacy does not arise because there is no forward looking element. \
I guess the answer is that you can think the specification in BW as being approximated by an AR(2) process which of course can display periodic cycles. The same applies to a setup similar to BCS. \
\
In the introduction do Dickey Fuller test and select those variables that are not cyclical. Hence shock that IRF are cyclical only after sentiment. \
\
We want to write a model where there are oppositive productivity cutoff variations in response to the two shocks. Is this true in the data? Is the entrant more or less productive? Entry and exit models are based on Hopenhayn 1992\
\
Could extend BGP in two directions: 1. Conditional cyclicality 2. Heterogenous firms \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf7 March 31\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The behavior of hh debt could be different in response to the two shocks. A tech shock may decrease hh debt while a sentiment shock through relaxing financial constraint could induce more borrowing see Boz and Mendoza 2012 \
\
In Khan and Thomas misallocation arises because small firms carry not enough capital so that they are financially constrained. With a credit tightening misallocation rises. With a negative tech shock capital demand decreases so that constraint relaxes, on the other hand bond price could decrease (remember that if the shock is persistent (see Villaverde) then the real rate decreases after a negative shock)  reflecting hh needs of dissaving so that firms rely on external finances borrow less. These effects probably compensate leaving misallocation constant. \
\
Another possible avenue is that tech shocks reveal the risk immediately while sentiment shocks don\'92t. Yet unlike models of sudden stops where agents are hit by a negative shock when the economy is oversensitive to exogenous negative perturbations, for example in Boz and Mendoza agents are initially optimistic relative to the persistence of the good regime and when they see a negative shock they are unduly pessimistic, we want that there is no negative shock, agents though can learn gradually and yet there must be overshooting. Note that being pessimistic is isomorphic to being subject to an externality, in particular if agents cut lending during a crisis without internalizing that this will deteriorate the economy even further so that they cut lending more than the centralized optimal action then it is as if agents were excessively pessimistic. \
\
I guess we don\'92t want to to claim that tech shocks do not generate cycles at all, in fact I believe that in a world of multiple equilibria tech shocks are capable of moving the economy from a good to a bad equilibria. Nonentheless this oscillations are very prolonged and are not responsible of the observed business cycle cyclicality around one equilibrium.  \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf7 April 1\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Have a clear idea on what are the differences between a tech shock and other shocks. \
1. Markup is procyclical (tech) \'97 profits?\
2. Real rate can go either ways but most likely increases (nominal rate increases and inflation decreases), in a sentiment shock could be that real rate decreases \
\
We want to revisit the standard predator-prey problem that is at the hearth of KM economy. After tech shocks the amount of prey increases temporarily \
\
Read on Godwin\'92s model \
Search on Lotka Volterra model of predator-prey \
Cite Perez when you talk about boom bust generated by tech shocks \
Tips: remember that with log utility a constant fraction of wealth is consumed every period. \
Remember that we want to overcome the predictability issue by making use of the idea that investors keep borrowing during a boom because credit conditions are particularly favorable while they don\'92t internalize that this will in turn generate a larger recession \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf18 April 2\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf19 Number of papers discuss results in KM, should be aware of those. \
Importantly see Azariadis Kaas Wen 2016 Restud "Self fullfilling Credit Cycles". They argue that KM model is counterfactual. Moreover they estimate a model with sunspot and cycles, not sure if fundamental shocks have cyclical dynamics but the model once estimated using Compustat data attributes large variation of output to sentimnet shocks. \
\
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf20 April 2
\fs32 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs22 \cf20 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs20 \cf0 Beaudry and Portier (2004). 
\f3\b0 They show that unrealized news can generate boob-and-bust dynamics (expansion and then a recession of output, investment, and hours). In order to do it they need a 3-sector model: 1. Durable-good production, 2. Non-durable good production, and 3. Consumption-good production. The only input factor for producing 1. And 2. Is labor which is competitively allocated. Then, durable and nondurable goods are combined to produce consumption good with a CES production function which displays complementarity among inputs. \
\
They define unrealized news shock as an expected future increase in the productivity of the nondurable good which is eventually non realized. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl1
\f1 \cf0 1.	
\f3 Signal occurs \
\ls5\ilvl1
\f1 2.	
\f3 Production of durable goods increase on impact because of the complementarity between nondurables and durables. Since future nondurables are expected \'96 ceteris paribus - to be higher then agents want more durables in future.\
\ls5\ilvl1
\f1 3.	
\f3 To produce more durables hours worked must increase  output, investment, and hours increase on impact.\
\ls5\ilvl1
\f1 4.	
\f3 Agents realize at t+h that the signal was wrong. Durable goods are relatively too high with respect of nondurables (they are complements). Investment demand falls, labor demand falls, hours worked falls. Hours fall because disutility of labor is assumed to be linear which implies that agents do not seek any labor smoothing, i.e. it is not costly to abruptly change the amount of hours worked  output, investment, and hours decrease at t+h.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
This model is able to generate boom-bust only conditional to demand shocks. The main takeaway is the complementarity between input factors. In their model is key to generate positive investment demand on impact and negative investment demand when the news does not realize. \
\
In this spirit, we can think at a production function Y = f(K,L,X) where X is an accumulation variable which displays a (low) degree of complementarity with both K and L. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl1\cf0 1.	After a demand shock, K and L are high and X starts to decrease. Since the level of complementarity is not too high the economy can expand (Y, I, and L), however, the more the economy is expanding the lower is X. When X is too low then the complementarity of X with K and L becomes important. Investment and labor demand fall with economic activity generating a bust. \
2.	After a supply shock X instead tend to increase because productivity enhances this variable. This implies that the bust explained above should not appear.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
What is X? Which channel is affecting is cyclicality? In my opinion, X can be thought as a form of financial health of the firm. X is a production input because it makes production more elastic (literature of cash/money inside production function). Cyclicality of X can be explained by the cyclicality of markup in new Keynesian models. During a supply shock more cash flow is available to structure a healthier financial position (of the firm) while after a demand shock less cash flow is related to poorer financial conditions (of the firm). 
\f1 \cf19 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf21 \
\
April 8\
\cf6 Need to understand how sunspots are introduced in a model with  dynamic indeterminacy \cf19 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 We have to plot quantity of housing and their 
\f0\b real 
\f1\b0 price\
\
\cf21 April 11 \
\cf6 We talked to Ryan and the punchline is that he is skeptical about using KM as a model because 1) CPI inflation doesn\'92t move much 2) the price of capital is also affected by the relative price of housing which in the model does not behave too differently in response of the two shocks. \
I believe that 1) and 2) are empirical questions that can be addressed and there could be room for using that model extended to accommodate sentiment shocks and cyclical dynamics, which in the simplest way to my knowledge would be accomplished introducing lumpy investment as in KM. \
Hence It\'92s probably worth thinking about alternative channels meanwhile developing KM extension.\
Related, we could think of the sentiment as a sunspot. The question is whether this gives rise to the Lotka-Volterra system. Probably yes because LV system should be isomorphic to a system with complex eigenvalues. So we cannot rule out model with sunspot??? Ideally ruling out those models would be a good contribution.  \
\cf0 \
\
\
\
}